refactor: basics intro (#462)
mlr-org/mlr3book: book/basics.qmd

Supervised learning can roughly be divided into two categories: regression (predicting numeric target values) and classification (predicting categorical target values/labels).
The goal is to build a model that captures the relationships between feature and target variables, in order to make accurate predictions of the target for new, unseen data.
Formally, a model is a function that maps a feature vector to a prediction, which is built by applying a learning algorithm to training data -- known as the `r define("training step")`.
Examples of such learners include decision trees, support vector machines, neural networks, and many more.
Many learning algorithms make use of the concept of `r define("empirical risk minimization")` during training (@sec-training) to produce a fitted model, which means they optimize a loss function (loosely speaking the difference between true and predicted values) on the training data over all candidate models.
In general, a loss function quantifies the mismatch between target values as predicted by a model and ground truth values as found in the data.

A model is only useful if it generalizes beyond limited training data.

> Therefore, separate test data is used to evaluate models in an unbiased way and assess to what extent they have learned the relationships that underlie the data, i.e., tests how well the model makes predictions (@sec-predicting) on new data as an estimate of future performance.

Reviewer: I would write "and *to* assess"

This forms the basis of model `r index("evaluation")` (@sec-eval), where a model's performance is evaluated using a performance measure.
This value based on the performance measure is often called the estimate of the generalization error -- given new data that we have not seen before, how well do we estimate the learned model to perform?

> In general, the loss function used during training, i.e., empirical risk minimization must not be the same loss function on which the performance measure is based on.

Reviewer: add comma after 'minimization'

{{< include _setup.qmd >}}

In essence, machine learning means learning relationships from data.

> In supervised learning, data consists of labeled examples, i.e., each data point contains feature variables and an associated label (target variable).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In supervised learning, datasets consist of data points (rows in classic panel data) that are labeled, which means each each data point includes feature variables (columns in panel data) and a label (a variable that we are trying to predict, or 'target').
```

> As an example, suppose we want to predict the Miles/(US) gallon a car can drive based on features such as its horsepower and the number of gears.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By example, we could consider the problem of trying to predict the miles per gallon (label/target) a car can drive based on features such as its horsepower and the number of gears (a problem familiar to users of the `mpg` dataset).
```

> In `r mlr3`, data is stored in [tasks](#sec-tasks) that augment a `data.table` with information about the target and features.

Reviewer 2: This doesn't feel very natural here, you've kind of jumped from describing ML to randomly putting in one mlr3 point. I don't think the sentence is needed tbh, if you do want to keep it to link with mlr3 terminology then would suggest something with a cleaner link like "In this book, you'll often see us refer to datasets as tasks, which is because predictive problems, like the example above, can be thought of as tasks we're trying to solve for a given dataset".

The goal is to build a model capturing the relationship between feature variables and target variable allowing for accuracte prediction of the target value of new, unseen data.
Formally, a model is a function that maps a feature vector to a prediction.
The model is obtained as the result of applying a [learner](#sec-learners) to training data -- the so-called training step.
Examples of such learners include classification tree learners (`r ref("mlr_learners_classif.rpart", text = "classif.rpart")`), regression support vector machine learners (`r ref("mlr_learners_regr.svm", text = "regr.svm")`), and many others, see `r link("https://mlr-org.com/learners.html", "the complete list here")`.
Many machine learning algorithms make use of the concept of \emph{empirical risk minimization} during [training](#sec-training) to produce their fitted model i.e., they optimize a loss function on the training data over all candidate models.
A loss function quantifies the mismatch between target values as predicted by a model and ground truth values as found in the data.
This empirical risk is only a stochastic proxy for the theoretical risk or true generalization error.

> In `r mlr3`, the model constructed by a learner during training is directly saved in the learner object and can be used to produce [predictions](#sec-predicting) on the test data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In `r mlr3`, the model constructed by a learner during training is directly saved in the `r ref("Learner")` object and can be used to produce predictions (@sec-predicting) on the test data.
```

As we are interested in models that generalize beyond the training data rather than just memorizing it, separate test data allows to evaluate models in an unbiased way and assess to what extent they have learned the relationships that underlie the data.

> [Evaluating](#sec-eval) a model is done based on a performance measure, usually again based on a loss function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This forms the basis of model `r index("evaluation")` (@sec-eval), where a model's performance is evaluated using a performance measure, which is usually a loss function.
```

> This value is often called the estimate of the generalization error -- given new data that we have not seen before, how well do we estimate the learned model to perform?

Reviewer 2: Repetitive of above, I think can be condensed/removed somehow

> In general, the loss function used during training, i.e., empirical risk minimization must not be the same loss function on which the performance measure is based on.

Reviewer 2: Bit confusing, sounds like you're saying a model can't be tuned with RMSE and then evaluated with RMSE.

<!--
The following is much more relevant for Chapter 3
Partitioning the entire data set into training and test sets is called [resampling](#sec-resampling) in `r mlr3`.
A single resampling may not provide the best estimate of the generalization performance.
As data are usually partitioned randomly, a single split can produce training and test sets that are very different, hence potentially creating the misleading impression that a particular type of model does not perform well.
Repeating the procedure of partitioning, building a model on the training set, and evaluating it on the test set provides a more robust estimate of the generalization performance.
-->

> 

Reviewer 2: In which case please move to intro there (or for now move to the related PR/issue) and delete from here
